Journal of Business & Economic Statistics
ISSN: 0735-0015 (Print) 1537-2707 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/ubes20
Investigating Economic Uncertainty Using
Stochastic Volatility in Mean VARs: The
Importance of Model Size, Order-Invariance and
Classiﬁcation
Sharada Nia Davidson, Chenghan Hou & Gary Koop
To cite this article: Sharada Nia Davidson, Chenghan Hou & Gary Koop (10 Mar 2025):
Investigating Economic Uncertainty Using Stochastic Volatility in Mean VARs: The Importance of
Model Size, Order-Invariance and Classiﬁcation, Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, DOI:
10.1080/07350015.2025.2455064
To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/07350015.2025.2455064
View supplementary material 
Published online: 10 Mar 2025.
Submit your article to this journal 
Article views: 208
View related articles 
View Crossmark data
Citing articles: 2 View citing articles 
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=ubes20

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS
2025,VOL.00,NO.0,1–16
https://doi.org/10.1080/07350015.2025.2455064
InvestigatingEconomicUncertaintyUsingStochasticVolatilityinMeanVARs:The
ImportanceofModelSize,Order-InvarianceandClassification
SharadaNiaDavidson a,ChenghanHou b,andGaryKoop a
aDepartmentofEconomics,UniversityofStrathclyde,Glasgow,UK; bCenterforEconomics,FinanceandManagementStudies,HunanUniversity,Hunan,
China
ABSTRACT
Stochastic Volatility in Mean Vector Autoregressions (SVMVARs) are popularly used to jointly estimate
uncertainty and its economic effects. However, existing studies analyzing macroeconomic and financial
uncertaintyrequiretheresearchertoclassifyeachvari ableasmacroeconomicorfinancialbeforeestimation,
donotconsiderwhetherresultsaresensitivetomodels izeandadoptaspecificationwhereresultsdepend
on the way the variables are ordered. We overcome these limitations, developing a novel Markov Chain
MonteCarloalgorithmforlarge,order-invariantSVMVARswithunclassifiedvariables.Foreachunclassified
variable, the algorithm determines the appropriate classification at each point in time. Using a simulation
studyandlargeU.S.dataset,weuncoverthefollowing.SmallerSVMVARsoverstatetheeffectsofuncertainty,
failing to reveal that only financial uncertainty has an adverse effect on the economy. When using large
order-dependentSVMVARs,however,theuncertaintyestimatesproduceddependonthevariableordering,
distortingimpulseresponseanalysis.Thus,itbecomescriticaltoadoptanorder-invariantspecification.We
alsofindthatmanyvariableschangeclassificationwithchangesoftenoccurringduringcrisisperiods.
ARTICLE HISTORY
ReceivedJuly2022
AcceptedJanuary2025
KEYWORDS
LargeVAR;Orderinvariance;
Stochasticvolatility;
Uncertainty
1. Introduction
Itiswidelyrecognizedthateconomicuncertaintycanadversely
affect the economy (see Bloom2009; Bachmann, Elstner, and
Sims 2013;S c o t t i2016;B a k e r ,B l o o m ,a n dD a v i s2016 among
many others). However, the role played by different types of
uncertainty is less well understood. Some theories suggest that
macroeconomicuncertaintyrelatingtoeconomicfundamentals
dampenseconomicactivity(seeLudvigson,Ma,andNg 2021for
an overview). Others instead argue that uncertainty primarily
arises from or is propagated via financial markets (Gilchrist,
Sim,andZakrajsek 2014;Christiano,Motto,andRostagno 2014;
Bonciani and Van Roye2016; Alfaro, Bloom, and Lin2024).
Understanding the relative importance of macroeconomic and
financialuncertaintyiscrucialwhendevelopingpolicyprescrip-
tions. If macroeconomic uncertainty dominates, policymakers
need to act decisively minimizing uncertainty, for instance, via
forward guidance. However, if financial uncertainty dominates,
otheractionssuchasincreasingliquidityinthefinancialsystem
ar elikelytobecri tical(Caggianoetal. 2021).
In response to these issues, frameworks are being developed
tomeasureandcontrasttheeffectsofmacroeconomicandfinan-
cial uncertainty. An important strand of the literature equates
uncertaintywithStochasticVolatility(SV)(seeBerger,Grabert,
and Kempa2016; Carriero, Clark, and Marcellino2020;H o u
2020;M u m t a za n dM u s s o2021 among many others). Within
this literature, a popular model is the Stochastic Volatility in
CONTACT ChenghanHou chenghan.hou@hotmail.com CenterforEconomics,FinanceandManagementStudies,HunanUniversity,122AdministrationBuilding,
HunanUniversity,109ShijiachongRoad,Yue luDistrict,ChangshaHunan,410006,China
Supplementarymaterialsforthisarticleareavailableonline.Pleasegoto www.tandfonline.com/UBES.
MeanVectorAutoregression(SVMVAR).Anattractiveproperty
oftheSVMV ARistha titjoin tlyestima tesuncertain ty(through
the SV in the errors) and produces an estimate of its impact on
theeconomy(byallowingtheSVstoentertheconditionalmean
of the VAR).
This article contributes to the literature by tackling a num-
ber of problems which continue to plague SVMVAR analysis,
making it difficult to robustly measure and analyze macroeco-
nomic and financial uncertainty. Closely related to our work is
the study by Carriero, Clark, and Marcellino (2018), hereafter
CCM, who develop a new SVMVAR model. Using data on 30
variables,theymodelmacroeconomic(financial)uncertaintyas
thecommonSV,thecommoncomponentdrivingthevolatilities
of all macroeconomic (financial) variables. However, due to the
challenges associated with estimating SVMVARs, several issues
requirefurtherconsideration.
First, existing SVMVAR specifications including CCM rely
on using a lower triangular parameterization to model the
reduced-form error covariance matrix. This does not relate to
structural identification. Rather, it facilitates model estimation
and improves computational efficiency (Chan2023). However,
recent studies show that this parameterization results in an
order-dependenceissuewheretheresultscanchangedepending
on the way variables are ordered. This can affect estimation
of reduced-form error variances (Chan et al.2018), forecast
performance (Arias, Rubio-Ramírez, and Shin 2023)a n d
©2025AmericanStatisticalAssociation

2 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
structural analysis (Bognanni2018;H a r t w i g2020), becoming
a more important issue in large models (Chan, Koop, and Yu
2024).
Second, Kim, Shephard, and Chib (1998)e ffi c i e n tM a r k o v
Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm, typically used to
estimate VARs with SV, cannot be applied once SV is added
tothemean.AlternativeapproachesinvolvingaMetropolisstep
(seeJacquier,Polson,andRossi 2002)orparticleGibbsstep(see
Andrieu, Doucet, and Holenstein2010 and Lindsten, Jordan,
and Schon2014) must instead be used. While these algorithms
typically work well when estimating small models, the compu-
tational burden and poor MCMC mixing properties become
more severe as model size increases. Such problems limit the
number of variables which can be included in a SVMVAR
despitetherecentfocusonlargeVARs(see,amongmanyothers,
Banbura, Giannone, and Reichlin2010; Koop and Korobilis
2013; Carriero, Clark, and Marcellino2019;G e f a n g ,K o o p ,a n d
Poon2022;a n dC h a n2022). It is therefore unclear whether the
findings obtained from SVMVARs are sensitive to the model’s
size.
Third, it remains unclear how dozens of series should be
classified prior to estimation of the SVMVAR. Should variables
relating to money supply, credit, exchange rates, interest rates
and stock prices be assigned to the macroeconomic block or
assignedtothefinancialblock?If10suchvariablesareincluded
in a model, this means there are 10
2 possible classification
schemes which the researcher must choose between. In the
uncertainty literature, this means that different studies (e.g.,
CCM,Ludvigson,Ma,andNg 2021andRedl 2020)c la s s i fyk ey
variablesdifferently.
To circumvent these challenges, we develop a novel MCMC
algorithm for estimating large SVMVARs which are order-
invariant and have unclassified variables. Although we use our
model to investigate macroeconomic and financial uncertainty,
we stress that our SVMVAR and algorithm can be used in
other contexts where large and order-invariant SVMVARs are
required. Our starting point is Cross et al. (2023), hereafter
CHKP, who propose a fast MCMC algorithm for SVMVARs,
exploiting band and sparse matrix algorithms to sample the
common SVs and improve efficiency. Our new algorithm uses
the computationally efficient approach developed by CHKP to
samplethecommonSVsbutisenrichedwithadditionalfeatures,
leadingtoseveralnewcontributions.
First,weintroduceorder-invariance.Notably,existingorder-
invariant algorithms developed by Bertsche and Braun (2022)
and Chan, Koop, and Yu (2024) for the VAR with SV can-
not be applied to our SVMVAR. We therefore develop a novel
algorithm for estimating our proposed point-identified order-
invariant SVMVAR (OI-SVMVAR). Second, since we follow
CHKP when sampling the common SVs, having contended
with order dependence issues, we can robustly estimate very
largeSVMVARs,assessinghowmodelsizeinfluencestheresults
obtained. We can also investigate whether order dependence
issues worsen as the size of the SVMVAR increases. Third,
we distinguish between macroeconomic, financial and unclas-
sified variables, allowing the algorithm to determine whether
each unclassified variable should be included in the macroeco-
nomic or financial block of variables. As the economy’s struc-
ture evolves or experiences crises, a variable’s classification may
changeovertime.Consequently,weallowforMarkovswitching
time-varyingclassification.
Our article also contributes to the literature seeking to ana-
lyze the effects of macroeconomic and financial uncertainty on
the economy. This literature almost exclusively deploys a two
step approach. In the first step, uncertainty measures are pro-
ducedorobtained.Inthesecondstep,theeffectsofuncertainty
areanalyzedbyincludingtheuncertaintyproxiesinsmallstruc-
turalVARs(SVARs).Earlystudiesseparatelyanalyzemacroeco-
nomic and financial uncertainty (see, e.g., Bloom2009;B a c h -
mann, Elstner, and Sims2013 or Scotti2016). In later work,
Casarinetal.( 2018)directlycontrastmacroeconomicandfinan-
cial uncertainty finding the latter to be more important. How-
ever,thetwouncertaintytypesareproxiedindifferentwaysvia
survey data and the VIX, respectively. In their analysis, Ma and
Samaniego (2019) use firm-level data, also finding that uncer-
tainty among financial firms has a larger economic impact than
non-financial uncertainty. More recently, Ludvigson, Ma, and
Ng (2021), hereafter LMN, follow Jurado, Ludvigson, and Ng
(2015),producingcomparablemeasuresofmacroandfinancial
uncertainty by extracting the common variation in the unfore-
castable component of a large number of macroeconomic and
financial time series. Using a SVAR with a novel identification
scheme, LMN also find that financial uncertainty rather than
macroeconomic uncertainty is a likely source of U.S. output
fluctuations.
Importantly, though, Angelini et al. (2019), using a differ-
ent identification scheme refuted by LMN, and CCM, using a
SVMVAR, find that both macro and financial uncertainty have
adverseeconomiceffects.Additionally,asoutlinedinCCM,the
two step approach deployed by LMN and others faces limita-
tions:theassumptionthatvariableshavetime-varyingvolatility
in the first step is inconsistent with the use of a homoscedas-
tic SVAR in the second step; the second step fails to account
for measurement error and uncertainty around the uncertainty
estimates themselves; and the SVAR itself is likely to suffer
fromomittedvariablesbiasduetoitssmallsize.CCM’sdeploy-
ment of a SVMVAR circumvents these limitations, however,
as discussed, issues around order-dependence, model size and
classificationrequireinvestigation.
OursimulationstudyshowsthatwhensmallerSVMVARsare
used, uncertainty and its effects are likely to be overstated. Like
CCM, we therefore find that when using U.S. data, results from
smaller30variableSVMVARsindicatethatmacroeconomicand
financialuncertaintybothhaveadverseeffectsontheeconomy.
In contrast, when a larger 43 variable SVMVAR is deployed,
omittedvariablesbiascanbealleviatedanditbecomesclearthat
financial not macroeconomic uncertainty has adverse effects.
However,toobtainrobustestimationresultsfromthe43variable
SVMVAR it is critical to use an order-invariant specification.
Whenusingthelowertriangularparameterization,manystudies
order macroeconomic variables before the financial variables.
This implicitly assumes that variation in financial variables is
not only explained by the volatility of financial variables (i.e.,
financialuncertainty)butthevolatilityofmacroeconomicvari-
ables (i.e., macroeconomic uncertainty). Our simulation study
therefore shows that the uncertainty estimates obtained from
large SVMVARs depend on the variable ordering, distorting
impulse response analysis. In our empirical work, the large

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 3
order-dependent SVMVAR thus fails to detect that financial
uncertainty adversely affects the economy. Our proposed OI-
SVMVARdoesnotsufferfromtheseissues.
We also show that our algorithm can detect cases in which
unclassified variables exhibit constant classification and cases
in which time-varying classification is present. In terms of the
l a t t e r ,w efi n dt h a tm a n yv a r i a b l e sc h a n g ec l a s s i fi c a t i o nw i t h
changesoftenoccurringduringcrises.Allowingforunclassified
variables therefore ensures that variables are assigned to the
appropriate block when our uncertainty measures and their
impactsareestimated.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows.Sec-
tion 2introduces our OI-SVMVAR model with time-varying
classification and MCMC algorithm. Section 3 presents our
simulation study.Section 4outlines the data used and different
model specifications before discussing our empirical results.
Section5 concludes.OurOnlineAppendixcontainsaTechnical
Appendix,DataAppendixandsupplementaryfigures.
2. TheOrder-InvariantStochasticVolatilityinMean
VectorAutoregression
This section describes a new SVMVAR model which is order-
invariant and allows for uncertainty in the way variables are
classified.Inaddition,itderivesanovelMCMCalgorithmwhich
extendsthealgorithminCHKPtohandletime-varyingclassifi-
cation uncertainty and order dependence issues. Full details of
the priors and additional details of the algorithm are provided
inOnlineAppendixA(sectionsA1andA2).
2.1. TheModel
W h i l et h eO I - S V M V A Rw ed e v e l o pc a nb eu s e di nd i ff e r e n t
contexts, in this article we will analyze macroeconomic and
financial uncertainty. We therefore lety
m
t = (ym
1,t,... ,ym
nm,t)′ be
annm × 1vectorofmacrovariables, yf
t = (yf
1,t,... ,yf
nf ,t)′ bean
nf × 1vectoroffinancialvariables,and yu
t = (yu
1,t,... ,yu
nu,t)′ be
annu ×1vectorofunclassifiedvariableswhereeachunclassified
variable could belong to either the macro or financial block.
We consider the following SVMVAR model, denotingyt =
(ym′
t ,yu′
t ,yf ′
t )′ andn = nm + nf + nu:
yt =
p∑
i=1
Biyt−i +
q∑
j=0
Ajht−j + B−1
0 ϵy
t , ϵy
t ∼ N (0,Ut),( 1 )
where B0 is a nonsingular matrix with ones on the diagonal,
B1,... ,Bp are n × n VAR coefficient matrices and ht =
(hm,t,hf ,t)′ is a 2× 1 vector of common log-volatilities which
capture the co-movement in the time-varying volatilities of the
macro and financial variables respectively. We usee
1
2hm,t and
e
1
2hf ,t asourmeasuresofmacroandfinancialuncertainty—these
willbedescribedinmoredetailshortly.Thecoefficientmatrices
A0,... ,Aq areofdimension n × 2andcapturetheeffectsofthe
contemporaneous and lagged common log-volatilities on the
VAR variables.
A key contribution of our article is to propose an SVMVAR
which is order-invariant. We therefore depart from the widely
applied assumption that the impact matrix B
0 has a lower
triangularstructure.Recentstudiesshowthatorderdependence
issues resulting from this parameterization tend to become
serious in large models. Consequently, Bertsche and Braun
(2022) and Chan, Koop, and Yu (2024)proposeorder-invariant
approaches, allowing B
0 to be an unrestricted nonsingular
matrixwhichisidentifieduptopermutationsandsignchanges.
We follow Lütkepohl and Wo´zniak (2020), restricting diagonal
elements of B0 to be ones and leaving other parameters
unrestricted. This setup allows us to show thatB0 is point-
identified (see Online Appendix A3) and also order-invariant
(see Online Appendix A5). We then verify our identification
assumption ex-post, demonstrating that this assumption holds
in our empirical study (see Online Appendix A.3.2).1 We also
imposeaHorseshoeprioronthefreeparametersof B0 toachieve
sparsitywhereappropriate.
Returning to our uncertainty measures, the matrixUt is
assumedtobediago nal:
Ut =
⎛
⎝
/Omega1m,t 00
0 /Omega1u,t 0
00 /Omega1f ,t
⎞
⎠,( 2 )
where the volatilities of the macro, financial and unclassified
variables are respectively defined as/Omega1m,t = diag(eωm
1,t ,... ,
eωm
nm,t ), /Omega1f ,t = diag(eωf
1,t ,... ,e
ωf
nf ,t ) and /Omega1u,t = diag(eωu
1,t ,... ,
eωu
nu,t ).
For variables in the macro and financial blocks, their log-
volatilitiesarespecifiedas
ωm
i,t = ηm
i,t + hm,t, i = 1,... ,nm,( 3 )
ωf
i,t = ηf
i,t + hf ,t, i = 1,... ,nf ,( 4 )
where ηm
i,t and ηf
i,t are the idiosyncratic volatility components
associated with theith macro and financial variables, respec-
tively. Equations (3)a n d(4)i n d i c a t et h a tt h ev o l a t i l i t yo fe a c h
variable in the macro (financial) block is defined as the sum of
its idiosyncratic volatility and the common log-volatility of the
macro(financial)variables. 2
Another contribution of this article lies in the treatment of
ourunclassifiedvariables.Thelog-volatilitiesfortheunclassified
variablesarespecifiedas
ωu
i,t = ηu
i,t + hsi,t,t, i = 1,... ,nu,( 5 )
wheresi,t ∈{ m,f }istheindicatorvariableforthe ithunclassified
variable,whichisassumedtofollowaMarkovswitchingprocess
with transition probabilityp(si,t = k|si,t−1 = l) = pi
l,k,
k,l ∈{ m,f }.N o t et h a tt h ev o l a t i l i t yo ft h eith unclassified
variable is again defined as the sum of two components. The
1Recentstudies(seeKorobilis 2022andChan,Matthes,andYu 2023)propose
efficientalgorithmsforidentifyinglargeSVARsusingsignrestrictions.How-
ever,thesemethodsarenotdesignedforimposingequalityrestrictionsso
donotallowforrestrictingthediagonalelementsof B
0 tobeone.Thusonly
set-identificationcanbeachieved.
2Equations (3) and (4) can be viewed as a factor model where the factor
loadings are set to be one. However, we can modify our algorithm to
estimatethefactorloadings(seeOnlineAppendixA.2.1).Intheunreported
estimation results, we find that estimating the factor loadings does not
alter the main findings in our empirical study. This is because most of the
estimatedfactorloadingsareclosetooneconsistentwithCCM.

4 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
first component is the idiosyncratic component,ηu
i,t,a n dt h e
secondcomponent, hsi,t,t,isdeterminedbytheindicatorvariable
si,t and is either the common log-volatility of the macro block
or the financial block. For example, ifsi,t = m,t h e nhsi,t,t =
hm,t, indicating that theith unclassified variable belongs to the
block of macro variables at timet. This specification not only
allows each unclassified variable to be assigned to either block,
but does so in a time-varying fashion. So it is possible that
a variable switches from the macroeconomic to the financial
block (or vice versa). This allows us to investigate a range of
interestingpossibilities.Forinstance,avariablemaybeclassified
i no n eb l o c kd u r i n gc r i s e sa n da n o t h e rb l o c kd u r i n gn o r m a l
times.
Note that the decision to classify a variable in one block
as opposed to another is made based on the co-movement of
its SV process with the variables which are definitively clas-
sified as being in one block or the other. In times when the
volatility of an unclassified variable is behaving like the volatil-
ities in the macroeconomic (financial) block it will be clas-
sified as a macroeconomic (financial) variable. An important
goal of our paper is to robustly measure uncertainty and its
effects.Allowingforunclassifiedvariablesthereforeensuresthat,
statistically speaking, variables are assigned to the appropriate
block when our uncertainty measures and their impacts are
estimated.
Recallthat h
t = (hm,t,hf ,t)′ isa2 × 1vectorofcommonlog-
volatilitiesused to capture macro and financial uncertainty. We
assumetheyevolveasthefollowingVARprocess:
ht =
ph∑
i=1
/Phi1iht−i +
py∑
j=1
/Psi1jyt−j + ϵh
t , ϵh
t ∼ N (0,/Sigma1h) ,( 6 )
where ϵh
t = (ϵh
m,t,ϵh
f ,t)′ is a 2× 1 vector of error terms and
t h ei n i t i a ls t a t ei ss p e c i fi e da sh1 ∼ N (0,Vh).O u rs p e c i fi -
cation therefore follows CCM and we assume that: financial
uncertainty can affect macro uncertainty and vice versa; our
uncertainty measures depend not only on their past values but
also past values of the VAR variables; andϵ
h
m,t and ϵh
f ,t are
permittedtobecorrelatedsincecommonshocksmayaffectboth
typesofuncertainty.
When undertaking impulse response analysis using the
SVMVAR, uncertainty shocks are orthogonal to the VAR
shocks by construction, providing structural identification. To
separately identify the effects of shocks to macro and financial
uncertainty,wefollowCCMbyassumingthatmacrouncertainty
affects financial uncertainty contemporaneously while financial
uncertainty affects macro uncertainty with a lag. Specifically,
in our main empirical analysis, we assume that the reduced-
form errors in (6)c a nb ed e c o m p o s e da sϵ
h
t = Leh
t where
L is a lower triangular matrix such that LL′ = /Sigma1h and
eh
t = (eh
m,t,eh
f ,t)′ is a vector of uncorrelated structural shocks
with eh
m,t andeh
f ,t denoting the macro and financial uncertainty
shocks,respectively.
The idiosyncratic log-volatilities associated with each vari-
able do not enter the conditional mean of the VAR and are
assumedtofollo wsta tio naryAR(1)p r ocesses:
ηk
i,t = μk,i + ρk,iηk
i,t−1 + ϵk
i,t, ϵk
i,t ∼ N (0,σ2
k,i),( 7 )
for i = 1,... ,nk, k ∈{ m,f ,u} and |ρk,i| < 1. The initial state
isspecifiedas ηk
i,1 ∼ N
(
0,
σ2
k,i
1−ρ2
k,i
)
.Wealsonotethatin( 1)and
(6) we follow CCM in setting the lag orders of our models to
p = 6,q = 2and ph = 2and py = 1,respectively.
2.2. ANewMCMCAlgorithmfortheOI-SVMVAR
Bayesian inference in VARs with SV is typically undertaken
usingMCMCmethodsinvolvingtheauxiliarymixturesampler
ofKim,Shephard,andChib( 1998).However,onceSVisadded
tothemeantheauxiliarymixturesamplercannolongerbeused.
Thus,studiesdeployingSVMVARssuchasCCMusetheparticle
Gibbs algorithmproposedby Andrieu,Doucet,andHolenstein
(2010)todrawthelog-SVsfromtheposteriordistribution.The
particle Gibbs algorithm can be computationally burdensome
in large models and suffer from particle degeneracy problems.
This is shown by CHKP who develop an MCMC algorithm
which uses an independent Acceptance–Rejection Metropolis-
Hastingsstep.WhileJacquier,Polson,andRossi( 2002)alsouse
a Metropolis step to draw the log-volatilities this must be done
date-by-date. CHKP sample the log-volatilities across all dates
in a single step, significantly reducing computation time and
improving mixing. This involves a Gaussian candidate gener-
ating density with variance depending on the Hessian of the
conditional posterior of the log-volatilities. Crucially, this Hes-
sian is block-banded. Band and sparse matrix algorithms can
thusbeexploitedtoallowforefficientcomputationeveninlarge
SVMVARs.
In this article, we use CHKP to efficiently sample the log-
volatilities but extend this algorithm to account for possible
order-dependence issues. We restrict the diagonal elements of
theimpactmatrix B
0 tobeones,allowingustodemonstratethat
B0 is point-identified. However, this means the order-invariant
algorithm for the VAR with SV proposed by Chan, Koop, and
Yu (2024)cannotbeusedtodraw B0.Inthissubsection,wethus
develop a novel parameter transformation sampling approach
for drawingB0.S a m p l i n gB0 in this way does not increase the
computational burden thus we retain the speed of CHKP. This
opens the door to robust estimation of very large SVMVARs
suchasthoseconsideredinthisarticle.
We also build on CHKP by allowing for variables whose
classification is uncertain. Conditional on knowing the way
the variables are classified (i.e., conditional on(s
i,1,... ,si,T)
for i = 1,... ,nu), we can transform our model, reordering
the equations of the unclassified variables so that they can be
groupedappropriatelywiththepredeterminedmacroandfinan-
cialvariables.Afterthistransformation,thetransformedmodel
reduces to a standard SVMVAR and the methods of CHKP can
be directly applied to sample the log-volatilities(h
1,... ,hT).I t
c a nt h e nb es h o w nt h a t ,g i v e nt h el o g - v o l a t i l i t i e s(h1,... ,hT),
draws of the indicator variable(si,1,... ,si,T),i = 1,... ,nu
and the Markov transition probabilities(pi
m,m,pi
m,f ,pi
f ,m,pi
f ,f )
can be directly obtained using the algorithm of Chib (1996).
Further details about the posterior sampler are provided in
OnlineAppendixA2.
We now present our sampling approach for drawingB
0.T o
setthestage,wefirstnotethatourmodelspecifiedin( 1)canbe

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 5
rewritten as
˜yt = B−1
0 ϵy
t , ϵy
t ∼ N (0,Ut),
where˜yt = yt − ∑ p
i=1 Biyt−i − ∑ q
j=0 Ajht−j.L e t t i n g˜Y =
(˜y1,... ,˜yT)′ andE = (ϵy′
t ,... ,ϵy′
T )′, we can express our model
morecompactlyas
˜YB′
0 = E.
Thus,for i = 1,... ,n,weha ve
˜Yb0,i = Ei, Ei ∼ N (0,/Omega1i),( 8 )
whereEi isthe ithcolumnof E,b′
0,i isthe ithrowof B0 and
/Omega1i =
⎧
⎪⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪⎪⎪
⎪
⎩
diag(ω
m
i,1,... ,ωm
i,T),i f1 ≤ i ≤ nm,
diag(ωu
i−nm,1,... ,ωu
i−nm,T),i fnm + 1 ≤ i ≤ nm + nu,
diag(ωf
i−nm−nu,1,... ,ωf
i−nm−nu,T),
ifnm + nu + 1 ≤ i ≤ nm + nu + nf .
Since the diagonal elements ofB0 a r er e s t r i c t e dt ob eo n e s
(i.e., theith element ofb0,i i ss e tt ob e1 ) ,t h e r ea r e(n − 1) free
parameters inb0,i that need to be estimated. We let˜b0,i be the
(n −1)×1vectorthatcollectsthesefreeparametersin b0,i,and
wethenassumeanindependentGaussianpriorfor ˜b0,i:
˜b0,i ∼ N (βi,Vi), i = 1,... ,n.( 9 )
We develop an algorithm for sequentially drawing the free
parameters in each row ofB0. Specifically, we propose a novel
samplingmethodthatiterativelydrawsfrom p(˜b0,i|B0,−i,/Omega1i,˜Y)
fori = 1,... ,n,where B0,−i = (b0,1,... ,b0,i−1,b0,i+1,... ,b0,n).
Sincewecanalwayspermuteanyrowof B0 tobeupdatedtothe
firstrow,withoutlossofgeneralitywewillillustrateourmethod
fordrawingtheconditionalposteriorofthefirstrowof B0,˜b0,1.
Sincethediagonalelementsof B0 arerestrictedtobeones,we
haveb0,1 = (1,˜b′
0,1)′.S u p p o s ew ew r i t e˜Y = (f1,... ,fn),t h e n
(8)wi thi = 1canbeexpressedas
f1 + ˜Y−1˜b0,1 = E1, E1 ∼ N (0,/Omega11), (10)
where˜Y−1 = (f2,... ,fn). Hence, the conditional posterior of
˜b0,1 isgivenby
p(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) ∝| detB0|Te
−1
2
(
f1+˜Y−1˜b0,1
)′
/Omega1−1
1
(
f1+˜Y−1˜b0,1
)
× e
−1
2
(
˜b0,1−β1
)′
V−1
1
(
˜b0,1−β1
)
∝| detB0|Te
−1
2
(
˜b0,1−ˆ˜b0,1
)′
K
(
˜b0,1−ˆ˜b0,1
)
,
(11)
where
K = ˜Y′
−1/Omega1−1
1 ˜Y−1 + V−1
1 , ˆ˜b0,1 = K−1 (
V−1
1 β1 − ˜Y′
−1/Omega1−1
1 f1
)
.
To further simplify the expression of the conditional poste-
riorp(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),wepartition B0:
B0 =
(
1 ˜b′
0,1
b0,21 B0,22
)
,
whereb0,21 is(n − 1) × 1and B0,22 is(n − 1) × (n − 1).U sing
a standard property of partitionedmatrices, the determinant of
B0 canbeexp r essedas
detB0 = detB0,22 × (1− b′
0,21B
′−1
0,22˜b0,1). (12)
Bysubstituting( 12)in to(11),wehave
p(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) ∝| 1− b′
0,21B
′−1
0,22˜b0,1|T
e
−1
2
(
˜b0,1−ˆ˜b0,1
)′
K
(
˜b0,1−ˆ˜b0,1
)
. (13)
Since the conditional posterior p(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) speci-
fi e di n(13) is not a standard distribution, direct sampling is
notfeasible.Tofacilitatesamplingfrom p(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),we
introduce a parameter transformation scheme that transforms
˜b0,1 tow = (w1,... ,wn−1)′ asfollows
w = d + Q˜b0,1, (14)
where
Q =
(
−b′
0,21B
′−1
0,22
0(n−2)×1 In−2
)
, d =
( 1
0(n−2)×1
)
.
The parameter transformation given in (14) defines an one-to-
oneaffinetransformationfrom ˜b0,1 tow.Thus,wecandefinean
inversemappingfrom w to˜b0,1:
˜b0,1 = Q−1w − Q−1d. (15)
To sample fromp(˜b0,1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),wecandrawfromthecon-
ditional posterior ofw, p(w|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),a n dt h e nt r a n s f o r m
the obtainedw back to˜b0,1 via the inverse mapping outlined
in (15). It is important to note that the Jacobian of the inverse
mapping(15)isindependentof ˜b0,1 andw.Hence,wecangetthe
conditional posteriorp(w|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) by simply substituting
(15)in to(13),whichgives
p(w|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y)
∝| w1|Te−1
2(Q−1w−Q−1d−ˆ˜b0,1)′K(Q−1w−Q−1d−ˆ˜b0,1)
∝| w1|Te−1
2(w−ˆw)′ˆK(w−ˆw), (16)
where
ˆK−1 = QK−1Q′, ˆw = d + Qˆ˜b0,1.
To samplew = (w1,... ,wn−1)′,w ep r o p o s ead i r e c ts a m -
pling approach for first drawingw1 ∼ p(w1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),a n d
thendrawing w−1 = (w2,... ,wn−1)′ ∼ p(w−1|w1,B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y).
To derivep(w1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) and p(w−1|w1,B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y),w e
firstpartition ˆK−1 andˆw as
ˆK−1 =
(λ11 λ′
21
λ21 /Lambda122
)
, ˆw = (ˆw1,ˆw′
−1)′,
whereλ11 isascalar, λ21 is(n − 2) × 1,/Lambda122 is(n − 2) × (n − 2)
andˆw−1 = (ˆw2,... ,ˆwn−1)′.Theni tcanbesho wntha t
p(w1|B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) ∝| w1|Te− 1
2λ11 (w1−ˆw1)2
, (17)
p(w−1|w1,B0,−1,/Omega11,˜Y) ∝ e
−1
2
(
w−1−ˆμw−1
)′
/Sigma1−1
w−1
(
w−1−ˆμw−1
)
,
(18)

6 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Table 1. SummaryofSVMVARmodelsinsimulationstudy.
Models 6variables 23variables Time-varyingclassi fication(TVC) Order-invariant(OI) Specificationof B0
1.CCM-6 • lowertriangular
2.OI-6 • • unrestricted
3.CCM-TVC-23 •• lowertriangular
4.OI-TVC-23 •• • unrestricted
where ˆμw−1 = ˆw−1 + w1−ˆw1
λ11 λ21 and /Sigma1w−1 = /Lambda122 − λ21λ′
21
λ11 .
Note that (18) implies that the conditional posterior ofw−1 is
aG a u s s ia nd i s tri b u ti o nwi thm ea nˆμw−1 and covariance matrix
/Sigma1w−1. However, the conditional posterior ofw1 givenby (17)is
nonstandard. Therefore inProposition 1we propose a parame-
ter transformation approach for sampling the conditional pos-
terior ofω
1.T h ep r o o fo fProposition 1is in Online Appendix
A4.Toapply Proposition1,wesamplefromtheabsolutenormal
distribution, ˜w1 ∼ AN ( ˆw1√Tλ11
, 1
T ),u s i n gt h en o r m a lm i x t u r e
approximation proposed in Appendix C of Villani (2009).3
Proposition 1. Suppose˜w1 ∼ AN ( ˆw1√Tλ11
, 1
T ),w h e r eAN (a,b)
denotes the absolute normal distribution that has the density
function
fAN (x;a,b) ∝| x|
1
b e− 1
2b (x−a)2
, x ∈ R,b ∈ R+,a ∈ R.
Let w1 = ˜w1 × √Tλ11,t h e nw1 follows a distribution with
densityfunctiongivenby ( 17).
3. SimulationStudy
This section undertakes a simulation study to demonstrate the
performance of our proposed algorithm. We also show that
omittingrelevantvariablesandusinganorder-dependentspec-
ificationcandistortresults.
3.1. DataGeneratingProcessandModels
In our simulation study, we use the SVMVAR specified in (1)–
(7)w i t hp = 2, q = 1, p
h = 1, py = 0a n dT = 600. We
alsosettheidiosyncraticlog-volatilitiestobezerosforsimplicity,
that is,ηi,t = 0f o ri ∈{ m,f ,u}.W ew o r kw i t ha2 3 - v a r i a b l e
system with one block ofnm = 10 variables, a second block of
nf = 10 variables andnu = 3u n c l a s s i fi e dv a r i a b l e s .W ew i l l
refer to the first block as the macro variables and the second
as the financial variables. For the unclassified variables, we set
s
1,t = m and s3,t = f for t = 1,... ,600. This means the first
variable is a macro variable and the third variable is a financial
variable. We then haves2,t = f when t = 1,... ,200 or t =
401,... ,600, and s2,t = m when t = 201,... ,400. Thus, the
secondunclassifiedvariableistypicallyclassifiedasfinancialbut
is temporarily assigned to the macro block in the middle of the
sample.
3Our algorithm for drawingB0 and the one by Braun (2023), which extends
Waggoner and Zha (2003), both implement a parameter transformation,
facilitatingestimation.Thisinvolvesanapproximationstepusingamixture
oftwoGaussiansinthesamplingprocedure.Whileouralgorithminvolves
approximatinganabsolutenormaldistribution,Braun( 2023)approximates
ageneralizedabsolutenormaldistribution.
The true impact matrixB0 i sa s s u m e dt ob eaf u l ln o n z e r o
matrix with ones on its diagonal and off-diagonal elements
generated fromN (0,0.2). FortheVAR coefficients, parameters
on the diagonal and off-diagonal ofB
1 are fromU(0,0.6) and
U(−0.2,0.2), respectively. The elements inBi, i > 1, are gen-
erated fromN (0,0.12/i2). The coefficient matrices associated
with the common log-volatilities in the mean equation (i.e.,
A
i,i = 0,... ,q) are generated fromN (0,0.52/(i + 1)2).F o r
thecommonlog-volatilities,weset /Phi11 = 0.95I and/Sigma1h = 0.05I.
We consider four SVMVAR models in total which are
described in Table 1. This includes our true model OI-TVC-
23, a 23 variable OI-SVMVAR with unclassified variables, and
three misspecified models: CCM-TVC-23, OI-6, and CCM-
6. CCM-TVC-23 is the same as OI-TVC-23 but its impact
matrix B
0 is restricted to be lower triangular so the variable
ordering matters. The two other misspecified models, OI-6
andCCM-6,aresmallversionsofOI-TVC-23 andCCM-TVC-
23 respectively, only containing the first three macro and first
threefinancialvariablesandnounclassifiedvariables.Following
common practice, in our order-dependent specifications, we
order our macro variables before our financial variables. All
resultsarebasedonproducing15,000draws,discardingthefirst
5000asburnin.
3.2. AlgorithmPerformance
Figure 1reports our estimates of macro and financial uncer-
tainty for all four models. It is clear that OI-TVC-23 recovers
t h et r u ev a l u e sw e l l ,d e m o n s t r a t i n gt h es o u n dp e r f o r m a n c eo f
our algorithm. Two further points are clear from our analysis.
First, relative to the true values, CCM-TVC-23 overestimates
macro uncertainty and underestimates financial uncertainty.
This is because the trueB
0 is a full nonzero matrix but CCM-
TVC-23imposesalowertriangularparameterization.Sinceour
macro variables are ordered before our financial variables, the
variation in financial variables will be explained not only by
financial uncertainty (proxied by the common SV of finan-
cial variables) but also macroeconomic uncertainty (proxied
by the common SV of macroeconomic variables). Thus, macro
uncertainty explains a larger share of variation in the data than
financialuncertainty.
Second,OI-6andCCM-6sufferfromomittedvariablesbias,
generating estimates of macro and financial uncertainty larger
thanthetruevalues.Thisresultisintuitivesincetheproportion
ofvariationinthedataexplainedbyomittedvariablesisinstead
captured by the models’ residuals. This increases the residuals’
v o l a t i l i t y ,i nt u r nl e a d i n gt ot h eo v e r e s t i m a t i o no fm a c r oa n d
financial uncertainty. Order dependence issues are also present
inoursmallermodels:relativetoOI-6,order-dependentCCM-6
generatesslightlyhighervaluesofmacrouncertaintyandlower
valuesoffinancialuncertainty.

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 7
Figure 1. Simulationstudyuncertaintyestimates:posteriormediansofthemacro, e
1
2hm,t ,(toppanel)andfinancialuncertainty, e
1
2hf,t ,(bottompanel).
Figure 2. Simulation study impulse responsesfor one standard deviation macro (top) and financial (bottom) uncertainty shocks: posterior medians and 70% credible
intervals.
Next, Figure 2 presents impulse responses to a one stan-
d a r dd e v i a t i o nm a c r oa n dfi n a n c i a lu n c e r t a i n t ys h o c ki no u r
four models. To facilitate comparisons, we report the posterior
medians and 70% credible intervals for the six variables com-
mon across models. Again, our results show that OI-TVC-23
r e c o v e r st h et r u ev a l u e sw e l lw i t ht h e7 0 %c r e d i b l ei n t e r v a l s
containingthetruevaluesacrossalmostallhorizons.Incontrast,
impulse responses obtained using CCM-TVC-23, OI-6, and
CCM-6 clearly deviate from the path of the true values. These
deviations, however, arise from different forms of model mis-
specification. CCM-TVC-23 fails to recover the true responses
due to order dependence issues. These issues are so severe that
OI-6 and CCM-6 tend to perform better in approximating the
trueresponses.
In contrast, the responses obtained from OI-6 and CCM-6
areverysimilar,demonstratingthatorderdependenceissuesare
less severe in small models. These similarities, however, do not
meanresultsarerobust.Withfewervariablesinthemodel,larger
effects are more likely to be detected. Consequently, relative to
OI-TVC-23, OI-6, and CCM-6 can overestimate the effects of
shocks, particularly when the true response is near zero. For
example, results from OI-TVC-23 indicate that when the first
andthirdvariablesrespondtoafinancialuncertaintyshockthe
credible bands span zero for most horizons. However, CCM-6
andOI-6detectapositivenonzeroresponse.
Finally, Figure 3plots the estimated posterior probabilities
thateachunclassifiedvariableisassignedtothemacroblock.W e
show that our algorithm can effectively detect the appropriate
classification. For the variable with time-varying classification,
thealgorithmperformswellandforvariableswithconstantclas-
sification,ouralgorithmassignseachvariabletotheappropriate
blocka teachpo in tintimewi thhighp r obab ili ty .
4. MeasuringandAnalyzingtheEffectsof
MacroeconomicandFinancialUncertainty
Adeeperunderstandingoftherelativeimportanceofmacroand
financial uncertainty is required so that appropriate policy pre-
scriptionscanbeadministered.Whilethereisgrowingevidence
suggestingthatfinancialuncertaintydominates,existingstudies
typicallydeployatwostepapproach,firstestimatinguncertainty

8 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Figure 3. The blue lines are the estimated posterior probabilityp(si,t = m|y) for each of the unclassified variablesi = 1,2,3. The black dashed lines indicate the true
values.
Table 2. SummaryofSVMVARmodelsinempiricalanalysis.
Mainempiricalanalysis
Models 30variables 43var iables Time-varyingclassification(TVC) Order-invariant(OI) Specificationof B0
1.CCM-30 • lowertriangular
2.OI-30 • • unrestricted
3.CCM-TVC-43 •• lowertriangular
4.OI-TVC-43 •• • unrestricted
Assessingrobustnesstoreversingvariableordering
5.CCM-TVC-RO-43 sameasCCM-TVC-43buttheorderingofthevariablesisreversed
6.OI-TVC-RO-43 sameasOI-TVC-43buttheorderingofthevariablesisreversed
andthenconsideringitseffectsinsmallSVARs—thiscanleadto
measurement error and omitted variables bias. CCM overcome
this by developing a SVMVAR framework, finding that both
macro and financial uncertainty have adverse economiceffects.
Nonetheless, issues around model size, order-dependence and
classification require investigation. In this section, we therefore
measure and analyze the effects of macro and financial uncer-
tainty using a large dataset and different SVMVAR specifica-
tions. We show that in smaller SVMVARs order dependence
issues are less severe. However, when a smaller information set
isused, bothmacroandfinancialuncertaintyarefoundtohave
adverse effects. In contrast, when using large SVMVARs order
dependence issues worsen. Thus. it only becomes clear that
financialuncertaintydominatesusingourlargeorder-invariant
SVMVAR.
4.1. LargeDataset,UnclassifiedVariablesandModels
In our analysis, we use an updated and extended version of the
dataset considered in CCM. The sample spans January 1960
to October 2021, allowing us to capture the coronavirus pan-
demic.AllvariablesareobtainedfromtheFRED-MDandFRED
datasets with historical house price data available from Robert
S h i l l e r .L i k eC C Ma n dL M N ,a l lm o d e l sa r ee s t i m a t e dw i t h
standardizeddata.Thecompletelistofvariablesandtheirclassi-
fication, abbreviations and transformations are given in Online
Appendix B.
We estimate six SVMVARs as outlined inTable 2.
4 Model
1 is order-dependent, includes the same 30 variables as CCM
a n dc l a s s i fi e st h e mi nt h es a m ew a yw i t h1 8v a r i a b l e st r e a t e da s
macroeconomic and the remaining 12 as financial. Model 2 is
almostidenticalbutusesourorderinvariantspecification.Mod-
els3and4areverylargeincluding43variablesandintroducing
time-varying classification. The only difference between them
is that Model 4 is order invariant. As previously emphasized,
when B
0 is order dependent, variable ordering matters. For
Models 1 and 3 which are order dependent, we order macro
variablesbeforefinancialvariablesasiscommonpracticeinthe
literature. This implies that the variation in financial variables
is explained by the volatility of macroeconomic variables with
the remaining variation explained by the volatility of financial
v a r i a b l e s .M o d e l s5a n d6t h e r e f o r em i r r o rM o d e l s3a n d4b u t
the ordering of the variables is reversed to examine whether
4RecallthatforallsixSVMVARs,wefollowCCM,assumingthatmacrouncer-
taintyhasacontemporaneousimpactonfinancialuncertaintywhilefinan-
cialuncertaintyreactstomacrouncertaintywithalag.However,inOnline
AppendixC4,weconsideranalternativeidentificationschemewherefinan-
cialuncertaintyaffectsmacrouncertaintycontemporaneouslywhilemacro
uncertainty affects financial uncertainty with a lag. Using this alternative
identificationscheme,ouroverarchingfindingsremainunchanged.

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 9
Figure 4. Uncertaintyestimatesfordifferentmodelsizes:posteriormediansofthemacro( e
1
2hm,t )andfinancialuncertainty( e
1
2hf,t ).GrayshadingindicatesNBERrecession
periods.
the results obtained are robust to this change.5 Models 4 and 6
shouldproducethesameresults;weincludebothjusttoconfirm
thisempirically.
Determining the classification of the federal funds rate, the
S&P 500 and credit spread is challenging. CCM suggest that as
theinstrumentofmonetarypolicythefederalfundsrateshould
be treated as a macro variable although studies as recent as
Redl (2020) include it in the financial block. For the S&P 500
a n dc r e d i ts p r e a d“ t h ed i s t i n c t i o nb e t w e e nm a c r oa n dfi n a n c e
is admittedly less clear” (CCM, p. 805) but ultimately CCM
place them in the financial block. Consequently, in Models 3–
6 we treat the federal funds rate, credit spread and S&P 500
as unclassified variables. We also include data on an additional
13 unclassified variables spanning: money supply, credit, house
prices,interestratesandexchangerates.
Overthenextthreesubsections,weconsidertheimportance
of model size, order-invariance and time-varying classification.
For brevity, we will generally focus on Models 1–4, however,
r es ul tsfr o mM odels5a nd6a r ep r esen t edinSection4.3 aswell
as in Online Appendix C2. All results presented are based on
producing 15,000 draws discarding the first 5000 as burn-in. It
takesapproximately10(30)hrtoestimateeach30(43)variable
5ForModels5and6,thereduced-formerrorsofthecommonlog-volatilities
are decomposed asϵh
t = Leh
t where the structural uncertainty shocks are
given byeh
t = (eh
f,t,eh
m,t)′.Thus,thefinancialuncertaintyshockisordered
beforethemacrouncertaintyshock,and Lisanuppertriangularmatrixwith
LL′ = /Sigma1h.Thisisconsistentwithouridentificationassumptionthatmacro
uncertaintyhasacontemporaneousimpactonfinancialuncertaintywhile
financialuncertaintyreactstomacrouncertaintywithalag.
model.6 Throughout, we report cumulated impulse response
functions.7
4.2. TheImportanceofModelSize
To investigate the role of model size, we begin by contrast-
ing results from our smaller models, CCM-30 and OI-30, and
our large order invariant model, OI-TVC-43. Our uncertainty
estimates are shown inFigure 4.W ec a ns e et h a tt h eb r o a d
trends observed are similar across our two smaller models and
OI-TVC-43. This suggests that when estimating macro and
financial uncertainty omitted variables bias is not as severe as
the case considered in our simulation study. There is, however,
evidence to suggest that a larger information set is required to
capture the key features of certain crisis periods. For example,
the coronavirus pandemic was a crisis that was not financial
in nature. Instead, there was considerable disruption to supply,
demand and productivity (Lin, Londono, and Ma2022). We
would expect this to manifest as macro rather than financial
uncertainty.Smaller30variablemodelssuggeststhatmacroand
financialuncertaintyspikedtoasimilardegreeduringthepan-
demic. However, OI-TVC-43 provides a more intuitive result:
macro uncertainty surged during the pandemic dwarfing the
increaseinfinancialuncertainty.
We now contrast impulse responses inFigure 5,f oc u s i n go n
oursmallandlargeorder-invariantspecifications,OI-30andOI-
6WeuseMATLABonadesktopwithAMDCoreRyzen9@340GHzprocessor.
7Specifically,usingthestandarddeviat ionsobtainedfromstandardizingour
data before estimation, we scale the response of each variable. We then
cumulateresponsestoobtaintheresponseinlevelsorloglevels.

10 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Figure 5. Impulseresponsesforonestandarddeviationuncertaintyshocks:posterior mediansand70%credibleintervalsofselectedvariablesforOI-30andO I-TVC-43.
TVC-43.IfwefirstconsiderOI-30,wefindthatbothmacroand
financialuncertaintyadverselyaffecttheeconomywhichiscon-
sistentwithCCM’sfindings.Inresponsetoamacrouncertainty
shock,thereisadeclineineconomicactivity,littlemovementin
prices and a subsequent monetary policy easing. The response
of financial indicators is muted apart from the credit spread. A
financialuncertaintyshockhassimilarconsequencesbutaffects
financialindicatorssuchasthecreditspreadandexcess returns
more strongly.
Our larger model, OI-TVC-43, however, yields different
results. Macro uncertainty has little effect on the economy
with most credible intervals spanning zero. In contrast, a
financial uncertainty shock still has nonzero, adverse effects on
indicators of economic activity such as earnings, employment,
unemployment and new orders. The credit spread also reacts
and monetary policy eases. In Figure 11 (Online Appendix C),
wealsoplotthedifferencesintheresponsesobtainedfromOI-30
and OI-TVC-43 and the corresponding 70% credible interval.
Our results show that for many variables the 70% credible
in tervalsexcludezeroformosthorizons.Th us,itiseviden ttha t
the size of the model has a substantial influence on estimation
results and responses to both macro and financial uncertainty
shocks.
Turning to historical decompositions (HDs) and forecast
error variance decompositions (FEVDs) from OI-TVC-43 (see
Online Appendix C2, Figures 14 and 15), we have two sets of
findings.
8 First,consistentwithCCM,ourFEVDsandHDsboth
indicate that uncertainty shocks play a small role in explaining
8SeeOnlineAppendixA6fordetailsofhowtocomputetheHDsandFEVDs.

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 11
Figure 6. Impulseresponsesforonestandarddeviationuncertaintyshocks:po steriormediansand70%credibleintervalsforOI-30andCCM-30.
fluctuationsineconomicactivity.Asexpected,studiesdeploying
small-scale VARs including Jurado, Ludvigson, and Ng (2015)
and LMN tend to detect larger contributions since there are
fewertotalvariablesinthesystem.
Second, if we consider the relative importance of macro and
financial uncertainty, our HDs do not uncover a systematic
pattern.However,ourFEVDsindicatethatfinancialuncertainty
plays alarger roleinexplainingvariationinheadlineindicators
such as industrial production, unemployment, new orders, the
federalfundsrateandcreditspread.Thisalignswithourimpulse
responses which suggest financial uncertainty has a more pro-
nouncedeffect on economicactivity.
Our results are supported by our simulation study which
demonstrated that in smaller models with omitted variables
bias we are more likely to find that impulse responses are large
when they are in fact near zero. In practice, when using OI-
30, this results in both macro and financial uncertainty having
adverseeffects.However,OI-TVC-43islesslikelytosufferfrom
omittedvariables.Usingthislargermodelweshowthatfinancial
not macro uncertainty has an adverse impact on the economy.
This aligns with a growing body of literature including LMN.
However,LMNfindthatmacrouncertaintyhasapositiveeffect
onoutputintheshort-runinlinewith“growthoptions”theories.
This could be induced by omitted variables bias. Inclusion of
other key variables in their SVAR such as the federal funds rate
could eliminate this puzzle. Similarly, relative to OI-TVC-43,
O I - 3 0a sw e lla so th e rs t u d i e su s i n gs m allS V A R sm a yo v e r s ta t e
theeffectsoffinancialuncertaintyduetoomittedvariablesbias.
Together, our findings underscore the advantage of using our
OI-SVMVARwhichcanaccommodatealargedataset.

12 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Figure 7. Uncertaintyestimatesfororder-dependentmodels:posteriormediansofmacro( e
1
2hm,t )andfinancialuncertainty( e
1
2hf,t ).GrayshadingindicatesNBERrecession
periods.
4.3. TheImportanceofOrderInvariance
Having revealed the dominant role played by financial uncer-
tainty in affecting the economy, we now assess the severity of
order dependence issues in models of different sizes. We first
contrast results obtained from CCM-30 and its order invari-
ant counterpart OI-30. We saw inFigure 4that they produce
s i m i l a rm e a s u r e so fu n c e r t a i n t y .Figure 6also shows that the
overarchingresultsaresimilarbuttheeffectsoffinancialuncer-
tainty are more pronounced if using OI-30. Plotting the differ-
ence in the responses and corresponding 70% credible interval
(OnlineAppendixC,Figure12)revealsthatsomedifferencesare
nonzero—see, for instance, industrial production, new orders,
the stock price and excess returns. Thus, order dependence
issues are present but less severe when we use relatively smaller
models.
Wenextcompareuncertaintyestimatesfromourtwoorder-
dependent models, CCM-TVC-43 and CCM-30 inFigure 7
(left panel). In doing so, we indirectly compare OI-TVC-43
and CCM-TVC-43 since uncertainty estimates produced by
CCM-30, OI-30 and OI-TVC-43 have similar trends. In our
s i m u l a t i o ns t u d y ,t h et r u ei m p a c tm a t r i xB
0 was a full nonzero
matrix. In our empirical work,B0 m a yb em o r es p a r s el e a d -
ing to slightly different findings. Nonetheless, when using a
large order-dependent specification, our financial uncertainty
measure is smaller in magnitude relative to CCM-30, OI-30,
andOI-TVC-43.InCCM-TVC-43,macrovariablesareordered
before financial variables thus variation in financial variables is
explainedbythevolatilityofbothfinancialandmacrovariables.
Our findings illustrate that order dependence issues are more
acuteinCCM-TVC-43thanCCM-30.
Oursimulationstudydemonstratedthatwhenthetrue B
0 is
notlowertriangular,adoptingthisparameterizationcanseverely
distort impulses. If we considerFigure 8, CCM-TVC-43 incor-
rectly detects that financial uncertainty does not have adverse
effects on the economy. Additionally, if we contrast OI-TVC-
43 and CCM-TVC-43 (Figure 13, Online Appendix C), there
are nonzero differences in the responses of variables such as
unemployment, new orders, the federal funds rate and credit
spreadtofinancialuncertaintyshocks.
To investigate further, we consider whether results from our
largermodelsdependonthewayvariablesareordered. Figure7
(right hand panel) shows that the magnitude of our financial
uncertainty measure increases if we reverse the ordering of
variables in CCM-TVC-43 and consider CCM-TVC-RO-43.
This is because variationin financial variables is now explained
by the volatility of financial variables but not macro variables.
Changing the variable ordering, however, simply introduces
a new form of order dependence and CCM-TVC-RO-43 still
yieldsdifferentuncertaintyestimatesfromOI-TVC-43.
Turning toFigure 8, these ordering issues have important
repercussions. While CCM-TVC-43 detects that financial
uncertainty does not have adverse effects on the economy, if
we reverse the variable ordering and consider CCM-TVC-RO-
43 the results suggest that financial uncertainty has nonzero
effects on several variables (Figure 16, Online Appendix C).
In contrast, by adopting our order-invariant specification, we
obtainthesameresults(subjecttoMCMCapproximationerror)
even when we reverse the variable ordering (Figure 17, Online
Appendix C). Thus, an order-invariant approach is required to
obtain robust results in larger models.

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 13
Figure 8. Impulseresponsesforonestandarddeviationuncertaintyshocks:posterior mediansand70%credibleintervalsofselectedvariablesforCCM-TVC-4 3andCCM-30.
4.4. TheImportanceofTime-VaryingClassification
In addition to developing a novel algorithm to estimate large
OI-SVMVARs, another contribution of our article lies in the
treatment of unclassified variables. In the OI-TVC-43 we treat
16 variables as unclassified with the algorithm determining
whether each of these variables is assigned to the macro block
orthefinancialblock ateachpointintime. Figure9 reports the
estimated classification obtained from OI-TVC-43 (see Figure
18 in Online Appendix C for the posterior probabilities). If the
posterior probability of the indicator variable associated with
unclassified variable i at time t is greater than 0.5,p(s
i,t =
m|y)> 0.5, then unclassified variablei is classified as a macro
variableattime t and has a value of one inFigure9.Oth e rwi se ,
the variable is classified as financial and has a value of zero in
Figure 9.W ec a ns e et h a tt h ea l g o r i t h mc a ne ff e c t i v e l yd i s c e r n
between variables which either have constant classification,
limitedregimeswitchingorconsiderableregimeswitching.
Ouralgorithmhasdetectedthatsimilarvariablesaregrouped
in the same block. For example, all interest rate spreads are
typically classified as financial variables together with the stock
priceandcreditspread.Thisseemsintuitivesincesuchvariables
are commonly included in indices of financial conditions (see
Hatzius et al. 2010). The federal funds rate is also typically
classified as financial by our algorithm. Interestingly, all these
variables either have constant classification or regime switching
confined to a single crisis period. With the stock price, credit
spread and federal funds rate all typically classified as financial
variables,ourfindingsdifferfromclassificationschemesselected
byotherstudiessuchasCCMandLMN.
Turning to our macro variables, our algorithm again groups
similar variables together. All three monetary aggregates, busi-

14 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Figure 9. Estimatedtime-varyingclassificationresultsobtainedfromOI-TVC-43.Av alueofzero(one)indicatesthatavariableisclassifiedasafinancial(ma cro)variable.
GrayshadingshowsNBERrecessionperiods.
ness loans, and consumer loans and nonrevolving consumer
credit are, on average, classified as macro variables. The house
p riceindexisalsotyp icallyassignedtothemacr oblocko fvari-
ables. That said, none of these variables have constant classifi-
cationinsteadexhibitinglimitedtomoderateregimeswitching.
Exchange rates, whose fluctuations are very difficult to predict
(Rossi 2013), are the one class of indicator which tend to alter-
natebetweenthemacroandfinancialblockmorerapidly.
If we consider the timing of regime switches, we see that
changes often coincide with crisis periods. For instance, the
f e d e r a lf u n d sr a t ei sb r i e fl ya s s i g n e dt ot h em a c r ob l o c ka si t
sharplydeclinesandhitsthezerolowerboundduringthegreat
recession. Similarly, real house prices are assigned to the finan-
cialblockduringthreecrisesincludingtheglobalfinancialcrisis
whichwastriggered,inpart,bythesubprimemortgagecrash.To
give another example, several variables such as business loans,
nonrevolving consumer credit and the Moody’s bond yield rel-
ative to the federal funds rate change classification during the
dotcomcrashandtheshortrecessionwhichensued.
5. Conclusion
T h eS V M V A Rh a se m e r g e da sa na t t r a c t i v em o d e l ,a l l o w i n g
for joint estimation of macroeconomic and financial uncer-
tainty and their impact on the economy. However, SVMVARs
are difficult to estimate and computationally demanding. To
overcomethesechallenges,existingapproachesmakeanumber
of assumptions. First, a lower triangular parameterization is
used for the reduced-form error covariance matrix, improving
computational efficiency but introducing an order dependence
issue.Second,alimitisplacedonthenumberofvariableswhich
c a nb ei n c l u d e di nt h em o d e l .T h i r d ,t h er e s e a r c h e rm u s tu s e

JOURNALOFBUSINESS&ECONOMICSTATISTICS 15
expert judgment to classify each variable as macroeconomic or
financial prior to estimation. Each of these assumptions may
haveanimpactonempiricalresults.
The models and posterior simulation methods developed in
this article avoid making such assumptions. We introduce a
new OI-SVMVAR model which relaxes the lower triangularity
assumption, allowing for order-invariant inference. As existing
o r d e r - i n v a r i a n ta l g o r i t h m sc a n n o tb ea p p l i e dt oo u rS V M V A R ,
wederiveanovelMCMCalgorithm.Havingaccountedfororder
dependence issues, we adopt the efficient approach developed
inCHKPforsamplingthecommonSVs.Thus,wecanrobustly
estimate very large SVMVARs. In our SVMVAR, we also allow
the classification of some variables to be uncertain. The algo-
rithm can then decide whether to classify them as macro or
financialvariablesinatime-varyingfashion.
We compare our very large OI-SVMVAR with unclassified
variables with alternative SVMVARs, investigating the impor-
tance of model size, order-invariance and time-varying classifi-
cation.WeshowthatsmallerSVMVARscanoverstatetheeffects
of uncertainty. Using our large SVMVAR, however, it becomes
clear that financial not macro uncertainty adversely affects the
economy,aligningwithLMN.Importantly,though,largeorder-
dependent SVMVARs produce measures of uncertainty which
depend on the way variables are ordered. In practice, this leads
toresultswhichimplythatfinancialuncertaintydoesnotimpact
the economy. Thus, it is critical to use an order-invariant spec-
ification like the one proposed in this article. We also find that
when unclassified variables change classification, changes often
occur during crises. Allowing for time-varying classification
ensuresvariablesareassignedtotheappropriateblockwhenour
uncertaintymeasuresandtheirimpactsareestimated.
SupplementaryMaterials
This supplement consists of the Technical Appendix, Data Appendix, and
supplementaryfigures(OnlineAppendix.pdf).
Acknowledgments
We thank the editor, associate editor and two anonymous reviewers for
useful comments which helped us improve our algorithm and article. We
also thank Ping Wu and participants at the EcoMod 2021 Conference and
Örebro University 4th Annual Workshop on Financial Econometrics for
helpfulcomments.
DisclosureStatement
No potential conflictofinterest was reported by the author(s).
Funding
Chenghan Hou also acknowledges financial support from the National
NaturalScienceFoundationofChina(72003064).
References
Alfaro, I., Bloom, N., and Lin, X. (2024), “The Finance Uncertainty Multi-
plier,”Journal of Political Economy,132,577–615. [ 1]
Andrieu,C.,Doucet,A.,andHolenstein,R.(2010),“ParticleMarkovChain
Monte Carlo Methods,”J o u r n a lo ft h eR o y a lS t a t i s t i c a lS o c i e t y,S e r i e sB ,
72,269–342. [2,4]
Angelini, G., Bacchiocchi, E., Caggiano, G., and Fanelli, L. (2019), “Uncer-
tainty Across Volatility Regimes,”Journal of Applied Econometrics, 34,
437–455. [2]
Arias, J. E., Rubio-Ramírez, J. F., and Shin, M. (2023), “Macroeconomic
Forecasting and Variable Ordering in Multivariate Stochastic Volatility
Models,”Journal of Econometrics,235,1054–1086. [ 1]
Bachmann,R.,Elstner,S.,andSims,E.(2013),“UncertaintyandEconomic
Activity: Evidence from Business Survey Data,”American Economic
Journal: Macroeconomics,5,217–249. [ 1,2]
Baker, S. R., Bloom, N., and Davis, S. J. (2016), “Measuring Economic
PolicyUncertainty,”The Quarterly Journal of Economics,131,1593–1636.
[1]
Banbura,M.,Giannone,D.,andReichlin,L.(2010),“LargeBayesianVector
Autoregressions,”Journal of Applied Econometrics,25,71–92. [ 2]
Berger,T.,Grabert,S.,andKempa,B.(2016),“GlobalandCountry-Specific
OutputGrowthUncertaintyandMacroeconomicPerformance,” Oxford
Bulletin of Economics & Statistics,78,694–716. [ 1]
Bertsche, D., and Braun, R. (2022), “Identification of Structural Vector
AutoregressionsbyStochasticVolatility,” Journal of Business & Economic
Statistics,40,328–341. [ 2,3]
Bloom, N. (2009), “The Impact of Uncertainty Shocks,”Econometrica, 77,
623–685. [1,2]
Bognanni,M.(2018),“AClassofTime-VaryingParameterStructuralVARs
forInferenceUnderExactorSetIdentification,” FRB of Cleveland Work-
ing Paper.[ 2]
Bonciani,D.,andVanRoye,B.(2016),“UncertaintyShocks,BankingFric-
tions and Economic Activity,”Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control,
73,200–219. [1]
Braun, R. (2023), “The Importance of Supply and Demand for Oil Prices:
Evidence from Non-Gaussianity,”Quantitative Economics, 14, 1163–
1198. [6]
Caggiano, G., Castelnuovo, E., Delrio, S., and Kima, R. (2021), “Financial
Uncertainty and Real Activity: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,”Euro-
pean Economic Review,136,103750. [ 1
]
Carriero, A., Clark, T. E., and Marcellino, M. (2020), “Assessing Interna-
tional Commonality in Macroeconomic Uncertainty and its Effects,”
Journal of Applied Econometrics,35,73–293. [ 1]
Carriero, A., Clark, T. E., and Marcellino, M. (2019), “Bayesian Vector
Autoregressions with Stochastic Volatility and Non-Conjugate Priors,”
Journal of Econometrics,212,137–154. [ 2]
Carriero, A., Clark, T. E., and Marcellino, M. (2018), “Measuring Uncer-
taintyanditsImpactontheEconomy,” Review of Economics & Statistics,
100,799–815. [1]
Casarin, R., Foroni, C., Marcellino, M., and Ravazzolo, F. (2018), “Uncer-
tainty Through the Lenses of a Mixed-Frequency Bayesian Panel
Markov-Switching Model,”Annals of Applied Statistics, 12, 2559–2586.
[2]
Chan, J. C. C. (2022), “Asymmetric Conjugate Priors for Large Bayesian
VARs,”Quantitative Economics,13,1145–1169. [ 2]
(2023), “Large Hybrid Time-Varying Parameter VARs,”Journal of
Business & Economic Statistics,41,890–905. [ 1]
Chan, J. C. C., Doucet, A., León-González, R., and Strachan, R. W. (2018),
“Multivariate Stochastic Volatility with Co-heteroscedasticity,” working
paper. [1]
Chan,J.C.C.,Matthes,C.,andYu,X.(2023),“LargeStructuralVARswith
MultipleSignandRankingRestrictions,”workingpaper. [ 3]
Chan,J.C.C.,Koop,G.,andYu,X.(2024),“LargeOrder-InvariantBayesian
VARs with Stochastic Volatility,”Journal of Business & Economic Statis-
tics,42,825–837. [ 2,3,4]
Chib, S. (1996), “Calculating Posterior Distributions and Modal Estimates
inMarkovMixtureModels,” Journal of Econometrics,75,79–97. [ 4]
Christiano, L. J., Motto,R., and Rostagno, M. (2014),“Risk Shocks,”Amer-
ican Economic Review,104,27–65. [ 1]
Cross, J. L., Hou, C., Koop, G., and Poon, A. (2023), “Large Stochastic
VolatilityinMeanVARs,” Journal of Econometrics,236,105469. [ 2]
Gefang, D., Koop, G., and Poon, A. (2022), “Forecasting Using Variational
Bayesian Inference in Large Vector Autoregressions with Hierarchical
Shrinkage,”International Journal of Forecasting,39,346–363. [ 2]
Gilchrist, S., Sim, J. W., and Zakrajsek, E. (2014), “Uncertainty, Financial
Frictions,andInvestmentDynamics,”NBERWorkingPaperNo.20038.
[1]

16 S.N.DAVIDSON,C.HOU,ANDG.KOOP
Hartwig, B. (2020), “Robust Inference in Time-Varying Structural VAR
Models: The DC-Cholesky Multivariate Stochastic Volatility Model,”
DeutscheBundesbankPaperNo.34/2020. [ 2]
Hatzius,J.,Hooper,P.,Mishkin,F.S.,Schoenholtz,K.L.,andWatson,M.W.
(2010),“FinancialConditionsIndexes:AFreshLookAftertheFinancial
Crisis,”NBERWorkingPaperNo.16150. [ 13]
Hou, C. (2020), “Time-Varying Relationship between Inflation and Infla-
tion Uncertainty,”Oxford Bulletin of Economics & Statistics, 82, 83–124.
[1]
Jacquier, E., Polson, N. G., and Rossi, P. E. (2002), “Bayesian Analysis of
Stochastic Volatility Models,”Journal of Business & Economic Statistics,
20,69–87. [2,4]
Jurado, K., Ludvigson, S. C., and Ng, S. (2015), “Measuring Uncertainty,”
American Economic Review,105,1177–1216. [ 2,11]
Kim,S.,Shephard,N.,andChib,S.(1998),“StochasticVolatility:Likelihood
InferenceandComparisonwithARCHModels,” T h eR e v i e wo fE c o n o m i c
Studies,65,361–393. [ 2,4]
Koop,G.,andKorobilis,D.(2013),“LargeTime-VaryingParameterVARs,”
Journal of Econometrics,65,361–393. [ 2]
Korobilis, D. (2022), “A New Algorithm for Structural Restrictions in
Bayesian Vector Autoregressions,”European Economic Review, 148,
104241. [3]
Lin,R.,Londono,J.,andMa,S.(2022),“GlobalRealEconomicUncertainty
and COVID-19,” FEDS Notes. Washington: Board of Governors of the
FederalReserveSystem [ 9]
Lindsten,F.,Jordan,M.,andSchon,T.(2014),“ParticleGibbswithAncestor
Sampling,”Journal of Machine Learning Research,15,2145–2184. [ 2]
Ludvigson,S.,Ma,S.,andNg,S.(2021),“UncertaintyandBusinessCycles:
Exogenous Impulse or Endogenous Response?” American Economic
Journal: Macroeconomics,13,369–410. [ 1,2]
Lütkepohl, H., and Wo´zniak, T. (2020), “Bayesian Inference for Structural
Vector Autoregressions Identified by Markov-Switching Heteroskedas-
ticity,”Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control,113,103862. [ 3]
Ma,X.,andSamaniego,R.(2019),“DeconstructingUncertainty,” European
Economic Review,119,22–41. [ 2]
Mumtaz, H., and Musso, A. (2021), “The Evolving Impact of Global,
Region-Specific, and Country-Specific Uncertainty,”Journal of Business
&E c o n o m i cS t a t i s t i c s,39,466–481. [ 1]
Redl, C. (2020), “Uncertainty Matters: Evidence from Close Elections,”
Journal of International Economics,124,103296. [ 2,9]
Rossi,B.(2013),“ExchangeRatePredictability,” Journal of Economic Litera-
ture,51,1063–1119. [ 14]
Scotti, C. (2016), “Surprise and Uncertainty Indexes: Real-Time Aggrega-
tion of Real-Activity Macro-Surprises,”Journal of Monetary Economics,
82,1–19. [1,2]
Villani,M.(2009),“Steady-StatePriorsforVectorAutoregressions,” Journal
of Applied Econometrics,24,630–650. [ 6]
Waggoner,D.F.,andZha,T.(2003),“AGibbsSamplerforStructuralVector
Autoregressions,”Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control,28,359–366.
[6]

